feat: YIP-0003 Pre-Trade risk checks vol.1 (#131)
layer-3/clearsync: docs/YIP/YIP-0003-pretrade-risk-checks.md

> We have to develop the mechanism that will limit users possibility to create orders that will put parties at risk of not been able to cover the net exposure by the colleteral. Exposing the parameters by API so it will be visible and understood by the user of the system. Like a Buying power = colleteral * levarage - open order amount, and Equity = colleteral + net exposure.

Reviewer: Equity is mentioned only once in this line, there is no PnL mentioned anywhere. So is this YIP has to monitor only buying power or also the PnL of opened positions?

> We have to develop the mechanism that will limit users possibility to create orders that will put parties at risk of not been able to cover the net exposure by the colleteral. Exposing the parameters by API so it will be visible and understood by the user of the system. Like a Buying power = colleteral * levarage - open order amount, and Equity = colleteral + net exposure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have to develop the mechanism that will limit the user's possibility to create orders that will put parties at risk of not been able to cover the net exposure with the collateral. Parameters shall be exposed by API so it is visible and understood by the user of the system. Like a Buying power = collateral * leverage - open order amount, and Equity = collateral + net exposure.
```

> https://www.b2bits.com/trading_solutions/pre-trade-risk-check-solutions

Reviewer 2: This link should be put as a Markdown link.

## Decision

### Definitions

Trading channel's ```buying power``` is equal to ```collateral * margin - locked_in_open_orders``` in quote currency.

> ### Order creation checks

Reviewer 2: Is the 3rd point the only order creation check?

- In Neodax each open channel has its session to control orders creation. A session contains channel's margin and locked balances, leverage, and rate limit restrictions.
- Neodax and ClearPort are synchronized - channels' margin balances are updated in real-time on each operation

> - Each order to create goes through a balance check. Neodax compares if the channel's up-to-date buying power is sufficient to allow order creation. In a successful case, the order amount is added to a channel's locked balance, thus the buying power gets decreased. In the case of market orders, as they are executed immediately, the lock isn't happening, and the created order affects the margin balance.

Reviewer 2: I think first 2 points in the unordered list are descriptions to the 3rd one. If so, it would be better to remove this unordered list.

### Open orders cancellation when buying power goes below zero

- If the buying power goes below zero (for example, position losses), Neodax starts cancelling open orders until the buying power is recovered.

> Cancellation starts with the oldest orders, and contunues until the buying power is more or equal to zero.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cancellation starts with the oldest orders, and continues until the buying power is more or equal to zero.
```

We have to develop the mechanism that will limit users possibility to create orders that will put parties at risk of not been able to cover the net exposure by the colleteral. Exposing the parameters by API so it will be visible and understood by the user of the system. Like a Buying power = colleteral * levarage - open order amount, and Equity = colleteral + net exposure.
https://www.b2bits.com/trading_solutions/pre-trade-risk-check-solutions

> 

Reviewer 3: let's name this YIP as `Pre-Trade risk checks vol.1` because we should have more risk checks with net exposure

## Decision

### Definitions

Trading channel's ```buying power``` is equal to ```collateral * margin - locked_in_open_orders``` in quote currency.

### Order creation checks

- In Neodax each open channel has its session to control orders creation. A session contains channel's margin and locked balances, leverage, and rate limit restrictions.
- Neodax and ClearPort are synchronized - channels' balances are updated in real-time on each operation.
- Each order to create goes through a balance check. Neodax compares if the channel's up-to-date buying power is sufficient to allow order creation. In a successful case, the order amount is added to a channel's locked balance, thus the buying power gets decreased. In the case of market orders, as they are executed immediately, the lock isn't happening, and the created order affects the margin balance.

### Open orders cancellation when buying power goes below zero

- If the buying power goes below zero (for example, position losses), Neodax starts cancelling open orders until the buying power is recovered.

> Cancellation starts with orders with the smallest locked amount in quote currency and contunues until the buying power is more or equal to zero.

Reviewer 3: better cancel older orders and not relay on order amounts

- If the buying power goes below zero (for example, position losses), Neodax starts cancelling open orders until the buying power is recovered.

> Cancellation starts with orders with the smallest locked amount in quote currency and contunues until the buying power is more or equal to zero.

Author: @pkucherenk0 Yes, we already agreed on this. Updating it right now. The oldest orders will be cancelled sequentially
